.\" Manpage for libcheck
.\" Contact (kvngncrlsn@gmail.com) to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "10 September 2021" "0.2.0" "libcheck man page"
.SH NAME
.B libcheck
\(em generate information about which binaries use dynamic libraries conforming to a search term
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B libcheck [-d|--deep] LIBRARY

.B libcheck [-p|--precise] LIBRARY

.B libcheck ... [-s|--search] LIBRARY
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B libcheck
is a shell program provided by
.B yalpack
(Yet Another Lfs PACKage manager) for collecting information which binaries use dynamic libraries conforming to a search term. Information on individual binaries is based on the most recent run of 
.B liblist(1)\fR\
, so the binaries are those in the following locations (unless 
.I /usr/sbin/liblist
was edited):

.TQ
.I \t /bin
.TQ
.I \t /usr/*
.TQ
.I \t /opt/*
.TQ
.I \t /sbin

.P
.B libcheck
will not produce duplicate results on systems where one or more of these locations is a symlink.

In addition, a list of dynamic libraries conforming to the original search term is provided; for more exact results, the
.B --precise (-p)
flag can be used.
.SH PRECISE MODE
Precise mode searches for an exact library name among 
.B yalpack\fR\
-installed packages. Extensions are not needed:
.B libcheck -p libc
will return a single result for
.I libc.so.6\fR\
,
.I libc.so\fR\
, etc. while excluding
.I libcrypt*\fR\
, etc.

When searching for multiple libraries, precise mode can be turned off for subsequent terms using the
.B --search (-s)
flag:

.B \t libcheck -p libcrypt -s libcrypto
.SH OPTIONS
.TQ
.B LIBRARY
.br
A search term for the desired library.

.TQ
.B -d|--deep
.br
Default searches use
.B -maxdepth 0\fR\
; although this is appropriate in most cases, a (slower) recursive search can be requested. Spurious results, including non-library files, are more likey to be reported with
.B --deep\fR\
\&. Incompatible with
.B --precise\fR\
\&.

.TQ
.B -p | --precise
.br
Use an exact library name (suffix not included). Faster, but only works with
.B yalpack\fR\
-installed libraries.

.TQ
.B -s | --search
.br
Return to the default search mode after calling
.B --precise\fR\
. This flag has no effect unless
.B --precise
is used first.

.TQ
.B -h|--help
.br
Display the help menu.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B pkgcheck(1)\fR\
,
.B liblist(1)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
K. Eugene Carlson
.MT kvngncrlsn@gmail.com
.ME
