.\" Manpage for liblist
.\" Contact (kvngncrlsn@gmail.com) to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "10 September 2021" "0.2.0" "liblist man page"
.SH NAME
.B liblist
\(em generate dynamic library usage information for system binaries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B liblist [-n|--new] [file1] [file2] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B liblist
is a shell program provided by 
.B yalpack
(Yet Another Lfs PACKage manager) for collecting information about dynamic library usage by programs in the following locations:

.TQ
.I \t /bin
.TQ
.I \t /usr/*
.TQ
.I \t /opt/*
.TQ
.I \t /sbin

.P
.B liblist
will not generate duplicate entries on systems where one or more of these locations is a symlink.

Running
.B liblist
as root will perform 
.B ldd(1)
on all such programs; information will be written to the following directory on a per-file basis:

.I \t /var/yalpack/BINDEPS/[NAME]/[NAME].libinfo

These data are used by
.B libcheck(1)
to reveal which programs use a particular dynamic library.
.B liblist
is called in the course of executing 
.B pkgcheck(1)\fR\
, 
.B pkgup(1)
and 
.B pkginst(1)\fR\
. These scripts will only call
.B liblist
to refresh the entire data collection when a package appears to have installed a library.

The
.B liblist
script can be edited to change the search locations to suit user preferences. This is best done before installation; for other changes, see
.I /usr/share/doc/yalpack-0.2.0/Customization
and
.I /etc/yalpack.conf.
.SH OPTIONS
.TQ
.B -n|--new
.br
Make a new directory tree in
.I /var/yalpack/BINDEPS
(default; if 
.B --new
is called before the files, a new directory tree will be generated and then updated thereafter)

.TQ
.B file
.br
Add library usage information for the specified file. A full path is needed.

.TQ
.B -h|--help
.br
Display a help menu.
.SH WARNING
Because
.B ldd
is called, 
.B liblist
(and
.B yalpack
in general) should never be used on systems with 
.B glibc-2.26
or earlier. See \(lqSecurity\(rq in
.B ldd(1)
for details.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B pkginst(1)\fR\
,
.B pkgup(1)\fR\
,
.B pkgcheck(1)\fR\
,
.B libcheck(1)\fR\
,
.B ldd(1)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
K. Eugene Carlson
.MT kvngncrlsn@gmail.com
.ME
