.\" Manpage for /usr/share/yalpack/newfiles
.\" Contact (kvngncrlsn@gmail.com) to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 5 "22 June 2021" "0.1.6" "newfiles man page"
.SH NAME
newfiles \- update the yalpack NEWFILES directory to reflect currently-existing files
.SH SYNOPSIS
/usr/share/yalpack/newfiles (default location)
.SH DESCRIPTION
newfiles is a shell program provided by yalpack (Yet Another Lfs PACKage manager) for updating the .new files lists in /var/yalpack/pkgdata/NEWFILES. Files are listed here under the following conditions:

\t The file exists on the system at the time .new files are evaluated

\t The file ends in ".new"

\t The file is provided by a yalpack-installed package

Running the script will update all lists in NEWFILES to reflect the files installed on the system at the time of running. If .new files exist on the system, the administrator will have the option to display the relevant lists upon script completion. The NEWFILES directory is also updated by pkginst(1), pkgup(1) and pkgremove(1) on an individual-package basis.

newfiles references the following directories:

\t /var/yalpack/pkgdata/TREES

\t /var/yalpack/pkgdata/VER

If one or both of these directories is missing or damaged, running restore-yalpack(5) can update the contents of NEWFILES (provided that a good package tree backup is available; see restore-yalpack(5) for details). Because restore-yalpack(5) takes longer to run than newfiles, it is generally better to use newfiles if possible.
.SH SEE ALSO
pkginst(1), pkgup(1), pkgremove(1), restore-yalpack(5)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
K. Eugene Carlson (kvngncrlsn@gmail.com)
