.\" Manpage for pkginst
.\" Contact (kvngncrlsn@gmail.com) to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "24 June 2021" "0.1.7" "pkginst man page"
.SH NAME
pkginst \- install a pkgmake-made package in LFS
.SH SYNOPSIS
pkginst [-kr|--keep --root-own] NAME1-VERSION1 [NAME2-VERSION2] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
pkginst is a shell program provided by yalpack (Yet Another Lfs PACKage manager) for installing one or more packages made by pkgmake in LFS.

pkginst begins by evaluating .new files (all non-binary files in /etc and /home, by default; others can be designated .new before making the package). .new files are renamed or removed as necessary by comparing md5sums. Any remaining .new files are logged to /var/yalpack/pkgdata/NEWFILES/[NAME] for administrator convenience. When the package is extracted to root, such .new files will have the same ownership and permissions as the existing file on the system.

The handling of symlinks follows. Any absolute symlinks pointing to locations within the package tarball are redone relative to root. Such symlinks are reported at the end of the installation process.

The default behavior of pkginst is to preserve the ownership of all package contents. If this is not desirable (for example, an unprivileged user built the package contents and still owns them), the --root-own option will change ownership of all package contents to root before installation actually occurs. Regardless of the ownership of any directories in the package tarball, the names and permissions of previously-existing directories will not be changed.

Once these modifications to the package have been completed, the contents of [NAME]-[VERSION]/dest are re-archived as INPACKAGE.tar.xz and extracted over the root directory.

pkginst writes the TREE file to /var/yalpack/pkgdata/TREES, as well as to the default backup locations at /var/log/yalpack and /root/.yalpack, if they exist.

The next task is to generate a SYMTREE file, if necessary. This document lists the non-symlinked location of the following, excluding duplicates with TREE:

\t symlinks to locations not provided by the package

\t files and directories installed under a symlinked path

No SYMTREE file will be generated if such items are not included in the package. For first-time installations and upgrades from yalpack 0.1.4 to later versions, yalpack's install.sh script will generate the SYMTREES directory and all required SYMTREE files.

pkginst will run any executable install.sh file in the top level of the package tarball once the .new files, symlinks, name and versioning information have been documented and the contents have been installed.

From here, pkginst calls pkgcheck(1) to return information about installed programs, installed libraries, and any dynamic libraries used by the binaries in the package. By default, pkginst makes use of the following files for data recording:

\t /var/yalpack/pkgdata/TREES/[NAME] (a copy of the package tree is written here for reference)

\t /var/yalpack/pkgdata/SYMTREES/[NAME] (the list of items installed under a symlink and their destinations, and symlinks pointing to destinations not provided by the package is generated here)

\t /var/yalpack/pkgdata/.SYMDESTS/[NAME] (the same list, but with destinations only)

\t /var/yalpack/pkgdata/VER/[NAME] (a file with the package's version number)

\t /var/yalpack/pkgdata/PKG-DEPS/[NAME]/libdeps (any libraries used by installed binaries)

\t /var/yalpack/pkgdata/PKG-BINS/[NAME]/instbins (any installed programs)

\t /var/yalpack/pkgdata/PKG-LIBS/[NAME]/libs (any installed libraries)

\t /var/yalpack/pkgdata/NEWFILES/[NAME] (any installed .new files; can be updated with /usr/share/yalpack/newfiles)

\t /var/log/yalpack/[NAME] (primary package tree backup)

\t /root/.yalpack-backup/[NAME] (secondary package tree backup)

When called in the course of pkginst, pkgcheck(1) will invoke liblist(1) to make a new collection of dynamic library information if recognized library files have been installed under any of the following locations or their subdirectories:

\t /lib
\t /lib64
\t /usr/lib
\t /usr/libexec
\t /usr/include

The pkginst and pkgcheck(1) scripts can be edited to change any of these default locations to suit user preferences. This is best done before installation, and in conjunction with the other yalpack scripts.
.SH OPTIONS
NAME - The name of the package.

VERSION - The package's version number. NAME alone is sufficient if the package name includes versioning information and matches the tarball.

-k|--keep - Retain the package tarball after installation.

-r|--root-own - Set the ownership of all package contents to root:root before installation. Useful for package contents that were built and are owned by a non-privileged user.
.SH SEE ALSO
pkgmake(1), pkgremove(1), pkgup(1), pkgcheck(1), liblist(1), newfiles-yalpack(5)
.SH BUGS
Although this might not be a pkgup bug per se, upgrades to versions of glibc older than the glibc used to build the system have been tested to cause system failure.
.SH AUTHOR
K. Eugene Carlson (kvngncrlsn@gmail.com)
